But John, there’s still plenty
you can do
in the congregation.
Sure, that sounds good.
But I’m no longer
a ministerial servant.
Why did I let my zeal
for the ministry cool off?
I know what the brothers
must think of me now.
Hello?
Oh, good morning.
My name is Jane.
How are you?
Not bad, thanks.
I know you may not be interested,
but I have this tract
I’d like to leave with you . . .
“You may not be interested?”
Where did that come from?
Not my best presentation,
but it didn’t seem like she wanted
to talk more anyway.
Well, what does that mean?
It may be manageable,
but long term,
given your other conditions,
you’re looking at possibly
some further tests . . .
Manageable?
Long term?
Oh, Jehovah,
how can I do this by myself?
Of course Jehovah values you.
Try to think of someone in the Bible
who may have felt like you do,
like Jonah.
Jonah?
Felt like I do?
“What comes to your mind
when you think of Jonah?
Do you think of him
as a disobedient prophet?”
“Reluctant to obey Jehovah’s command,
“Jonah boarded a ship that carried him
farther and farther away
from his assignment.”
“Did Jonah’s recent actions
“disqualify him
from ever again serving God
in an official capacity?”
He sure could have thought so.
I know I do.
“No,
“Jehovah mercifully and lovingly
renewed the prophet’s commission.”
So if Jehovah didn’t see Jonah
as a total failure,
then what must he think of me?
First Samuel 16:7:
“For the way man sees
is not the way God sees.”
“Jonah did not see Nineveh
as Jehovah did.”
Well,
with all that they were doing,
how could he view them any differently?
But the account says:
‘When God saw they had turned back
from their evil ways,
‘he reconsidered the calamity,
and he did not bring it.’
“Despite the people’s badness,
“Jehovah cared about them.
“He values human life
“and the potential
that each individual has
for repenting and learning
to do what is right.”
Well, of course that’s true.
Why didn’t Jonah see that?
But am I seeing people
the way Jehovah does?
Am I assuming they won’t listen
and then not giving my best?
How can I know
how a person will respond?
‘Jonah learned to be merciful.
Will we?’
Matthew 5:7 says:
“Happy are the merciful,
since they will be shown mercy.”
“Then Jonah prayed to Jehovah his God
“from the belly of the fish, and he said:
“‘Out of my distress
“‘I called out to Jehovah,
“‘and he answered me.
“‘Out of the depths of the Grave
I cried for help.
You heard my voice.’”
God heard Jonah and delivered him.
But I can’t expect a miracle.
“Then my prayer came in to you,
into your holy temple.”
“My prayer.”
“My prayer came in to you.”
Jonah didn’t know
if Jehovah would rescue him,
but he prayed in faith
that Jehovah cared.
“But as for me,
“with the voice of thanksgiving
“I will sacrifice to you.
“What I have vowed, I will pay.
Salvation is from Jehovah.”
As long as I still can,
I’ll keep sacrificing to God.
Salvation is from Jehovah!